---
$title: Initializing a new Grow project
$order: 2
---
To start your first Grow project, the easiest thing to do is to use the `grow init` command. This command fetches a *theme* (which is like a scaffold) and clones it to your computer, ready for you to develop upon. Themes are Git repositories. They are just Grow projects with some special theme-related data.

But wait! You advertised that Grow is all about configuration, not code, and now we're downloading scaffolding? Grow's default themes are primarily *configuration scaffolds*. When you run `grow init`, Grow creates a set of all the basic required config files. *Pods require absolutely zero business logic code to work*; Grow uses the config files to determine your web site's entire architecture.

Run the following command to follow along with the codelab:

    # Clones the "codelab" default theme to "~/example.com/".
    $ grow init codelab ~/example.com/

You'll now have the "codelab" theme on your computer, ready to use with Grow. To understand what we mean by "configuration, not code," let's take a look at the structure of a Grow project.

### Pod structure

Grow projects (called *pods*) contain everything that Grow needs to build your site: content, structure, translations, static files, templates, etc. Again, you won't have to write any code to determine how your site is served or its architecture – configs take care of that for you. Because of this concept, if you need to change URLs later, or add or remove localizations (for example), it's simply a matter of changing configs.

Let's now take a look at the structure of a pod. This is the "codelab" pod that was cloned to your computer.

    /example.com/
    . /content/          # Content collections, blueprints, and documents.
    . /sources/          # Source files used by preprocessors.
    . /static/           # Static files directly served to visitors.
    . /translations/     # Content and UI string translations.
    . /views/            # Front end templates.
    . podspec.yaml       # Pod specification file.

Directory | File types inside
-- | --
`/content/` | YAML files for blueprint configurations, and Markdown files (with YAML front matter) for content documents.
`/sources/` | In the codelab, we have SASS files and JavaScript files which are run through a SASS processor and Closure Compiler JavaScript minifier, respectively.
`/static/` | Static assets (such as images) and the generated files from `/sources/`.
`/translations/` | Translation message templates and catalogs (in gettext PO format).
`/views/` | Front end templates to render your content. By default, these are Jinja2 templates.
`podspec.yaml` | The main config file that specifies universal project-level details.
