---
$title: Pod specification
$order: 4
---
Each pod contains a file, `podspec.yaml`, which is the pod specification (podspec) file. The podspec file is the *only required file* in a pod. A podspec allows you to define project-wide settings and behavior.

A podspec file lets you define a few things:

- metadata about the project such as its title,
- which preprocessors you're using (such as the Sass preprocessor or the Closure Compiler preprocessor),
- localization data (such as what locales your site is available in),
- which files are static files and error pages,
- and named deployment configurations.

Here's the codelab's `podspec.yaml` file. Review it and then let's continue.

    # /podspec.yaml...

    # Project-wide metadata.
    grow_version: ">=0.0.25"
    title@: Grow Codelab
    description@: "The codelab pod for Grow. Used in conjunction with the codelab at http://grow.io."

    # Custom error pages.
    error_routes:
      default: /views/errors/default.html

    # Localization data.
    localization:
      default_locale: en
      locales:
      - de
      - en
      - fr
      - ja
      - zh
    
    # Static directories – where static files come from and where they are served.
    - static_dir: /dist/
      serve_at: /static/css/
    - static_dir: /source/fonts/
      serve_at: /static/fonts/
    - static_dir: /source/images/
      serve_at: /static/images/
      
    # A list of preprocessors.
    preprocessors:
    - kind: sass
      sass_dir: /source/sass/
      out_dir: /dist/

    # Named deployments.
    deployments:
      default:
        destination: local
        out_dir: grow-codelab-build/
      gcs:
        destination: gcs
        bucket: mybucket.example.com
      s3:
        destination: s3
        bucket: mybucket.example.com
      sandbox:
        destination: gcs
        bucket: sandbox.growlaunches.com
