---
$title: Documents
$category: Reference
$order: 4
---

# Content documents

[TOC]

All content in Grow is stored inside __content documents__. Content documents are Markdown and YAML files in a pod's `/content/<collection>` directory.

Documents optionally have a `path` property which allows the document to be exposed as a page in your site. If a document does not have a `path`, it is considered to be a partial document and can be included and re-used by other documents.

## Anatomy

### Document path

The __document path__ of a content document is its path relative to the pod's `/content/` directory. For example, a document whose [pod path](#) is `/content/pages/welcome.md` would have a document path of __pages/welcome.md__.

### Front matter

A YAML document prepended to a Markdown body. Front matter contains fields. Field names prefixed with a dollar sign ($) are ones which are built-in to Grow. Front matter is encapsulated by three dashes (`---`). From views, fields can be accessed using `{{doc.<field name>}}` where <field name> is the name of the field. The dollar sign prefix should be omitted from field names accessed using template variables.

### Markdown body

A body of a Markdown-formatted document. From views, the Markdown body processed into HTML can be accessed using `{{doc.html}}` (see the `html` API function below).

###

    ---
    $title: Hello, Grow!
    $category: Get Started
    ---
    # Welcome to Grow!

    This is a [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) document.

    - I can use...
    - ... Markdown syntax...
    - ... to write my content.

## Functions

There are several API functions available for documents. These are implemented as functions rather than properties because they accept optional parameters.

### next

`next(<document list>)`

Returns the next document from a list of documents. If no list is provided, the default document ordering of documents within a collection is used. If there is no next document, `None` is returned.

    # Returns the next document from the default list of documents.
    {{doc.next()}} -> <Document>

    # Returns the next document from the custom list of documents.
    {% set doc1 = g.doc('/content/pages/foo.md')
    {% set doc2 = g.doc('/content/pages/bar.md')
    {{doc.next([doc1, doc, doc2])}} -> <Document (/content/pages/bar.md)>

### prev

`prev(<document list>)`

### titles

A function that returns a title, given a title name. Allows for cascading titles. Useful for giving the document a different title in different contexts (for example, a breadcrumb or a side menu).

    {{doc.titles('nav')}}

    # This sample YAML front matter...

    $title: Example Hello World Document
    $titles:
      nav: Hello World
      breadcrumb: Hello World Document

    # ...produces the following results.

    {{doc.titles('nav')}}          -> Hello
    {{doc.titles('breadcrumb')}}   -> Hello World Document
    {{doc.titles('unknown')}}      -> Example Hello World Document

## Properties

Documents have a few built-in properties that cannot be overwritten by configs.

### base

The basename (minus extension) of the document's file.

    # In document /content/pages/foo.md
    {{doc.base}} -> foo

### collection

A reference to the document's collection.

    # In document /content/pages/foo.md
    {{doc.collection}} -> <Collection (/content/pages/)>

### html

Returns the document's body (for `.md` documents, the Markdown body) rendered as HTML.

    {{doc.html|safe}}  # Avoid escaping the HTML by piping to the "safe" filter.

### title

Returns the document's canonical title.

    {{doc.title}}

### url

The document's URL object.

    {{doc.url.path}}       # The serving path to the document.

## Built-in fields

Built-in fields carry special meaning that affect various aspects of building your site.

- $category (string)
- $hidden (boolean) – Whether the document will be automatically included in lists generated by `docs` and `g.categories`.
- $localization – Overrides the blueprint's localization configuration.
- $order (number)
- $parent (document)
- $path (string)
- $slug (string)
- $title (string) – The "canonical" title of your document.
- $titles – A mapping of title names to values.
- $view (string)

### $hidden

Whether to hide the document when querying for documents with the `g.docs` tag. Note that even if a document is marked hidden, it will still be rendered and served at its URL.

    # Document will not show up in g.docs() results.
    $hidden: true

### $path

The serving path to make the document available at. By default, individual documents inherit the path specified by their blueprint. However, it can be overriden by specifying `$path` at the document-level.

    # In document /content/pages/foo.md

    # Makes the document available at /foo/bar/.
    $view: /foo/bar/

    # Makes the document available at /foo/.
    $view: /{base}/

### $view

The view to use when rendering the page for this document. By default, individual documents inherit the view specified by their blueprint. However, it can be overriden by specifying it at the document-level.

    # Renders the document with the template at /views/pages.html
    $view: /views/pages.html

<!--

## Custom fields
## Document forms

When adding or editing content documents using a UI (and when validatindocuments) forms describing the content document's structure can be automatically generated by inspecting both the document and its blueprint.

### Fields inherited from blueprints

Input fields will be created for each field present in the document's blueprint. All documents in the same collection will inherit fields from the collection's blueprint.

### Document-specific fields

Documents can also specify their own fields if a specific document has more content than other documents within the same collection. Simply add a new field to the document's front matter to use it.

`/content/people/_blueprint.yaml`

    title: People
    view: /views/people.html

    fields:

    - name:
        title: Name
        type: text
    - age:
        title: Age
        type: number
    - color:
        title: Favorite colors
        type: color
        multiple: yes

`/content/people/john.md`

    ---
    $title: John

    name: John Smith
    age: 25
    color: rgb(0, 0, 128)
    ---
    This is the bio for John. It's Markdown-formatted, but it's so short that doesn't really matter.
    -->
