---
$title: Content documents
$category: Reference
---

# Content documents

All content in Grow is stored inside __content documents__. Content documents are Markdown and YAML files in your pod's __/content/__ directory.

### Document path

The __document path__ of a content document is its path relative to the pod's "/content/" directory. For example, a document whose [pod path](#) is "/content/pages/welcome.md" would have a document path of __pages/welcome.md__.

## Anatomy of a content document

- __Front matter__ – A YAML document prepended to a Markdown body. Front matter contains fields. Field names prefixed with a dollar sign ($) are ones which are built-in to Grow. Front matter is encapsulated by three dashes (`--`). From views, fields can be accessed using `{{g.doc.<field name>}}` where <field name> is the name of the field. The dollar sign prefix should be omitted from field names accessed using template variables.

- __Markdown body__ – A body of a Markdown-formatted document. From views, the Markdown body processed into HTML can be accessed using `{{g.doc.html}}`.

###

    --
    $title: Hello, Grow!
    $category: Get Started
    --
    # Welcome to Grow!

    This is a [Markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) document.

    - I can use...
    - ... Markdown syntax...
    - ... to write my content.

### Built-in fields

- $title (string) – The "canonical" title of your document.
- $category (string)
- $order (number)
- $parent (document)
- $path (string)
- $hidden (boolean) – Whether the document will be automatically included in lists generated by `g.entries` and `g.categories`. 
- $view (string)

#### $view

The view to use when rendering the page for this document. Typically, documents will use the view specified by the collection's blueprint. However, individual content documents can override the collection's view.

    /views/pages.html

## Document forms

When adding or editing content documents using a UI (and when validating documents) forms describing the content document's structure can be automatically generated by inspecting both the document and its blueprint. 

### Fields inherited from blueprints

Input fields will be created for each field present in the document's blueprint. All documents in the same collection will inherit fields from the collection's blueprint.

### Document-specific fields

Documents can also specify their own fields if a specific document has more content than other documents within the same collection. Simply add a new field to the document's front matter to use it.

`/content/people/_blueprint.yaml`

    title: People
    view: /views/people.html

    fields:

    - name:
        title: Name
        type: text
    - age:
        title: Age
        type: number
    - color:
        title: Favorite colors
        type: color
        multiple: yes

`/content/people/john.md`

    --
    $title: John

    name: John Smith
    age: 25
    color: rgb(0, 0, 128)
    --
    This is the bio for John. It's Markdown-formatted, but it's so short that doesn't really matter.
