---
$title: How it works
$category: Get Started
$order: 2
---
# How it works

[Grow's mission](/project/) is to bring joy to building and launching web sites. How does it do that? It provides features to streamline the different parts of web site production: from content management, to localization, to launching, to re-usable components and handy-features such as auto-generated navigation.

By design, Grow is neither cloud nor local. The initial version of Grow acts as a static site generator, meaning you use Grow on your local machine (or a hosted version) to develop a site and author its content. Once you're satisfied with your site, you __build__ it with Grow, then __launch__ the generated fileset to a publicly-accessible hosting service.

## Static is the new dynamic

Here's how it works. Grow is a self-contained, independent application that accepts a directory of files as its input (these directories are known as __pods__), and produces site builds as its output. Grow can deploy the site builds to a number of different [launch destinations](/docs/deployment/).

The architecture of the system enables the following:

- You will never need to maintain or configure Grow. Grow always lives separately from your sites.
- Your sites and your files will never be locked in to a system. Everything is a file, so you can use your favorite tools throughout your workflow.
- Each pod is its own Git repository. Pod git repositories can be managed anywhere – locally, GitHub, your company's SCM system, etc.

## Files go in, builds come out

OK, so everything's a file, but how are sites generated? As mentioned, Grow takes pods and spits out sites. The files in the following directories of a pod determine content, URLs, language, and presentation:

- __content__: Contains collections of Markdown documents, or arbitrary data documents stored as YAML files. Content collections have blueprints, which specify the structure of documents in the collection, and also URLs and corresponding templates.
- __static__: Static files, such as compiled JavaScript, CSS, images, etc.
- __translations__: Message catalogs for all string translations in your site.
- __views__: Full HTML templates (using the Jinja2 template language) let you control exactly what your site looks like.

Once you become acquainted with the structure of a pod, you can use the Grow SDK to build and launch web sites generated by your pods. To get your feet wet, follow the Try Grow tutorial. To dive right in, check out the full directory structure reference.

<a class="btn btn-primary" href="/docs/try-grow/">Next: Try Grow</a>
